minor fixes chapter 2 (#180)
r-causal/causal-inference-in-R: chapters/chapter-02.qmd

Many modern nets are also treated with insecticide, dating back to Russian soldiers in World War II [@nevill1996], although some people still use them as fishing nets [@gettleman2015].

It's easy to imagine a randomized trial that deals with this question: participants in a study are randomly assigned to use a bed net, and we follow them over time to see if there is a difference in malaria risk between groups.

> Randomization is often the best way to estimate a causal effect of an intervention because it reduces the number of assumptions we need to make for that estimate to be valid (we will discuss these assumptions @sec-assump).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Randomization is often the best way to estimate a causal effect of an intervention because it reduces the number of assumptions we need to make for that estimate to be valid (we will discuss these assumptions in @sec-assump).
```

In other words, this diagram declares what we think the causal relationships are between these variables.
In @fig-net-data-dag, we're saying that we believe:

> -   Malaria risk is causally impacted by net usage, income, health, temperature, and insecticide resistance. Insecticide resistance, however, does not affect our exposure (net usage), so we omit it from the DAG.

Reviewer: I don't think I understand why we would do this. Can you elaborate?

Reviewer 2: My inclination would be to leave it in, I get that it is superfluous but so are other factors that only influence the exposure. Maybe we can highlight in the text that for completeness we’ve shown a full DAG but in practice people often don’t put things that just influence the outcome

Author: Sorry should have been more clear. Hernan spends a lot of time talking about what does and does not belong in a causal diagram. In general, I typically follow that guidance to mean when drawing: 
- start with exposure and outcome variables
- iteratively include only variables which are common causes of any pairs of variables in the graph (this starts with classic exposure/outcome confounders, and then to the common causes of those confounders etc)
In a whole game setting, I figured we are presupposing a little knowledge (that the reader may not yet have) and wanted to draw a proper causal DAG. That said, I can also appreciate that showing the insecticide resistance node makes our assumption that it's not a confounder clearer (which is the whole point of the DAG!). Happy to leave it in if you both think so -- though I did find the DAG tough to read because it's so dense (this could also have to do with lack of time-ordering) and was looking for ways to streamline it.

Reviewer: Yeah, it's not time-ordered because it's based on Andrew's DAG. I thought about that so we could explore it.

I do want to keep this variable in, though, partly because that's what Andrew did and partly for pedagogical reasons (e.g. getting the right adjustment set). I also think that, for modeling purposes, predictors of the outcome are still useful to show because of the precision aspect.

Randomization is one causal inference technique that *does* deal with unmeasured confounding, one of the reasons it is so powerful.
:::

> We might also want to know how well-balanced the groups are by confounders.

Reviewer: This change doesn't sound correct to me.

Reviewer 2: maybe :
```suggestion
We might also want to know how well-balanced the groups are by each confounder.
```

Reviewer: yeah that works for me!
